Kubeedge Local Up Scirpt Guide (#600)
kubeedge/website: docs/developer/local_up_kubeedge.md

---

> title: Kubeedge Local Up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: KubeEdge Local Up
```

Author: Modified.

This page explains how to use shell script **hack/local-up-kubeedge.sh** in **kubeedge/kubeedge** repo to create a local KubeEdge cluster, installing necessary components, and starting CloudCore and EdgeCore services.

## Usage Steps

1. Preparation:
Ensure that you have kind, kubectl, docker, and other necessary tools installed.
Ensure that your system has a Go language development environment installed, and the version meets the requirements of KubeEdge.
Based on the user's choice of container runtime (docker, cri-o, isulad), user can verify the prerequisites via the script below, or it will also be verified before the installation start in **hack/local_up_kubeedge.sh**

```shell
verify_docker_installed
verify_crio_installed
verify_isulad_installed
kubeedge::golang::verify_golang_version
check_kubectl
check_kind
```

2. Executing the Script:
Before running the script, you can modify some environment variables to suit your needs, such as **LOG_DIR** and **CONTAINER_RUNTIME** in the script.
The script should be run with administrative privileges, as some operations (e.g., software installation, system configuration changes) require sudo access.

```shell
hack/local_up_kubeedge.sh

> ```

Reviewer 2: the name of script is local-up-kubeedge.sh

Author: correct the script name

This script will run the environment setting, prerequesites verification, installation and so on. For details, please refer [Script Analysis](#script-analysis)

3. Debugging and Log Viewing:
If problems occur, you can view the log files generated by the script, typically located at 

```shell
/tmp/cloudcore.log and
/tmp/edgecore.log
```

4. Shutting Down the Cluster:
If the cluster is no longer needed, user can press **ctrl+c** to terminate the script and 
call the cleanup function to clean up the environment.

```shell
cleanup
```

## Script Analysis

local-up-kubeedge.sh scipt is a tool for installing and configuring a KubeEdge environment, below are some main features it provides:

1. Set environment variables

> This script sets several environment variables at the beginning, including log directory, log level, timeout duration, protocol type, container runtime type, Kebenetes cluster name and etc. This is the necessary for local Kebeedge cluster setting up and starting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This script sets several environment variables at the beginning, including log directory, log level, timeout duration, protocol type, container runtime type, Kubernetes cluster name and etc. This is the necessary for local KubeEdge cluster setting up and starting.
```

Author: correct the name

Based on the user's choice of container runtime (docker, cri-o, isulad), user can verify the prerequisites via the script below, or it will also be verified before the installation start in **hack/local_up_kubeedge.sh**

```shell
verify_docker_installed
verify_crio_installed
verify_isulad_installed
kubeedge::golang::verify_golang_version
check_kubectl
check_kind
```

2. Executing the Script:
Before running the script, you can modify some environment variables to suit your needs, such as **LOG_DIR** and **CONTAINER_RUNTIME** in the script.
The script should be run with administrative privileges, as some operations (e.g., software installation, system configuration changes) require sudo access.

```shell
hack/local_up_kubeedge.sh
```
This script will run the environment setting, prerequesites verification, installation and so on. For details, please refer [Script Analysis](#script-analysis)

3. Checking the Running Status:
After the script completes, you can use kubectl commands to check the status of the cluster's nodes and the running status of KubeEdge components.

```shell
healthcheck
kubectl get nodes | grep edge-node | grep -q -w Ready && break

> ```

Reviewer 2: In my opinion, healthcheck is generally only used inside scripts. Users can directly check the kubeedge node status through the k8s API, so I recommend deleting healthcheck here.

Author: Removed that part in the usage steps, and mentioned in the script analysis that user could use k8s API to check the health status.

4. Debugging and Log Viewing:
If problems occur, you can view the log files generated by the script, typically located at 

```shell
/tmp/cloudcore.log and
/tmp/edgecore.log
```

5. Shutting Down the Cluster:
If the cluster is no longer needed, you can use the cleanup function provided in the script to stop and clean up the cluster and related resources.

```shell
cleanup

> ```

Reviewer 2: We can add a note: Users can directly use ctrl+c to terminate the script and call the cleanup function to clean up the environment

Author: Modified shutting down parts.

## Script Analysis

local-up-kubeedge.sh scipt is a tool for installing and configuring a KubeEdge environment, below are some main features it provides:

1. Set environment variables

This script sets several environment variables at the beginning, including log directory, log level, timeout duration, protocol type, container runtime type, Kebenetes cluster name and etc. This is the necessary for local Kebeedge cluster setting up and starting.

```shell
KUBEEDGE_ROOT=$(cd "$(dirname "${BASH_SOURCE[0]}")" && pwd)/..
ENABLE_DAEMON=${ENABLE_DAEMON:-false}
LOG_DIR=${LOG_DIR:-"/tmp"}
LOG_LEVEL=${LOG_LEVEL:-2}
TIMEOUT=${TIMEOUT:-60}s
PROTOCOL=${PROTOCOL:-"WebSocket"}
CONTAINER_RUNTIME=${CONTAINER_RUNTIME:-"containerd"}
KIND_IMAGE=${1:-"kindest/node:v1.29.0"}
```

2. Clean up the previous installation

```shell
cleanup
```
It will uninstall kubeedge and the cluster.

3. Container Runtime Installation:

Based on the user's choice of container runtime (docker, cri-o, isulad), the script attempts to install the corresponding runtime tools.

> Checks and verifies the installation of Go language version, kubectl tool, and kind tool.

Reviewer 2: Would it be better to mention here that if the user does not set the container runtime, we will use containerd by default?

Author: Add note that containerd will be set by default.
